Add new term entry .subList() for ArrayList (#4110)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/array-list/terms/subList/subList.md

---
Title: '.subList()'

> Description: 'Learn about the .subList() method in Java ArrayList, allowing you to obtain a portion of the list based on specified indices.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a view of a portion of the list based on the specified start and end indices.'
```
Try to be as specific as possible.

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Method'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No need to add this subheading.

> In Java, `.subList()` method is a powerful feature of the [`ArrayList`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/array-list) class that allows you to obtain a portion of the list based on specified indices. This method provides a convenient way to create a sublist containing elements from the original `ArrayList`.

Reviewer: While `.subList()` is often used with `ArrayList`, it's actually a method defined in the `List` interface. Change this in the introductory line.

## Syntax

```pseudo
List<E> subList (int fromIndex, int toIndex)
```

> The `.subList()` method is invoked on an ArrayList object and taks two parameters: `fromIndex` (inclusive) and `toIndex` (exclusive). It returns a view of the portion of the original list between the specified indices.

Reviewer: Remove this line and add the description of `fromIndex ` and `toIndex` parameters below the syntax block.

## Example

Below is an example demonstrating the usage of the `.subList()` method: 

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;

public class SubListExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    // Create an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> exampleList = new ArrayList<>();

    // Add elements to the ArrayList
    exampleList.add("Item A");
    exampleList.add("Item B");
    exampleList.add("Item C");
    exampleList.add("Item D");
    exampleList.add("Item E");

    // Use .subList() to obtain a portion of the list
    List<String> subList = exampleList.subList(1, 4);

    // Display the original and sublist
    System.out.println("Original List: " + exampleList);
    System.out.println("SubList (inclusive index 1, eclusive index 4): " + subList);
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Include the output after the Java Code block. Look at the Docs [style guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md) to understand how to add an output.

## Syntax

```pseudo
List<E> subList (int fromIndex, int toIndex)
```

- `fromIndex`: The starting index of the sublist.
- `toIndex`: The ending index of the sublist.

## Example

Below is an example demonstrating the usage of the `.subList()` method: 

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;

public class SubListExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    // Create an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> exampleList = new ArrayList<>();

    // Add elements to the ArrayList
    exampleList.add("Item A");
    exampleList.add("Item B");
    exampleList.add("Item C");
    exampleList.add("Item D");
    exampleList.add("Item E");

    // Use .subList() to obtain a portion of the list
    List<String> subList = exampleList.subList(1, 4);

    // Display the original and sublist
    System.out.println("Original List: " + exampleList);
    System.out.println("SubList (inclusive index 1, eclusive index 4): " + subList);
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Add a line space before and after a code block. Write a line like `This The output of the above code will be:` before the output block.

---
Title: '.subList()'
Description: 'Returns a view of a portion of the list based on the specified start and end indices.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Method'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> In Java, `.subList()` method is a powerful feature of the List interface that allows one to obtain a portion of the list based on specified indices. This method provides a convenient way to create a sublist containing elements from the original List.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Java, the `.subList()` method is a powerful feature of the List interface that obtains a portion of the list based on specified indices. This method provides a convenient way to create a sublist containing elements from the original list.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
List<E> subList (int fromIndex, int toIndex)
```

> `fromIndex`: The starting index of the sublist.
> 
> `toIndex`: The ending index of the sublist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fromIndex`: The starting index of the sublist.
- `toIndex`: The ending index of the sublist.
```

> - `toIndex`: The ending index of the sublist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `toIndex`: The ending index of the sublist. The element at this index is excluded from the sublist.
```

## Example

Below is an example demonstrating the usage of the `.subList()` method: 

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;

public class SubListExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    // Create an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> exampleList = new ArrayList<>();

    // Add elements to the ArrayList
    exampleList.add("Item A");
    exampleList.add("Item B");
    exampleList.add("Item C");
    exampleList.add("Item D");
    exampleList.add("Item E");

    // Use .subList() to obtain a portion of the list
    List<String> subList = exampleList.subList(1, 4);

    // Display the original and sublist
    System.out.println("Original List: " + exampleList);

>     System.out.println("SubList (inclusive index 1, eclusive index 4): " + subList);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    System.out.println("SubList (inclusive index 1, exclusive index 4): " + subList);
```

  }
}
```

This is the output of the above code:

```shell
Original List: [Item A, Item B, Item C, Item D, Item E]
SubList(inclusive index 1, exclusive index 4): [Item B, Item C, Item D]
```

> In this example the original [`ArrayList`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/array-list) is created with five elements. The `.subList(1, 4)` call creates a sublist containing elements form index 1 (inclusive) to index 4 (exclusive). The result is then printed to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the original [`ArrayList`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/array-list) is created with five elements. The `.subList(1, 4)` call creates a sublist containing elements from index 1 (inclusive) to index 4 (exclusive). The result is then printed to the console.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
List<E> subList (int fromIndex, int toIndex)
```

- `fromIndex`: The starting index of the sublist.
- `toIndex`: The ending index of the sublist.

## Example

Below is an example demonstrating the usage of the `.subList()` method: 

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;

public class SubListExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    // Create an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> exampleList = new ArrayList<>();

    // Add elements to the ArrayList
    exampleList.add("Item A");
    exampleList.add("Item B");
    exampleList.add("Item C");
    exampleList.add("Item D");
    exampleList.add("Item E");

    // Use .subList() to obtain a portion of the list
    List<String> subList = exampleList.subList(1, 4);

    // Display the original and sublist
    System.out.println("Original List: " + exampleList);
    System.out.println("SubList (inclusive index 1, eclusive index 4): " + subList);
  }
}
```

This is the output of the above code:

```shell
Original List: [Item A, Item B, Item C, Item D, Item E]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
